Alright in this video we want to take
a look at setting up a form to create a
new recipe for our little recipe
application. Now the first thing I want
to do is go back to the show form and on
line 20 here, I got the comment and
there for a thymesVar. Yesterday when I
recorded this, and the previous video I was
having problems with this. But between now
and then I've upgraded to IntelliJ 2017.2.
I'm not sure if it's a change in
the version or perhaps I didn't have the
comment in the right spot but by moving
it up to line 20 I no longer need
several instances of that for the
intellisense to detect the proper object
type here in the Thymeleaf expressions. So do a quick diff here, and we can see
that I had several comments there which have now been taken out. That's no
longer necessary and I've moved it up to
the top here on line 20. So you can see I
was using several comments. I think it
was just either aims using the tag,
having it nested inside the div elements
or needed to move it. Or by moving it up
it and did clear up and intellisense is
working throughout the document now
rather than red lining it like it was
before. But just a quick hint there on
when I did a small change. I did if you
happen to be using intelliJ and preacher,
this comment is IntelliJ specific. I
don't know if it will work with
Eclipse. Alright moving right along to our
new form object. So I have a new recipe
form up and want to go through a few
things of this. I'm not going to code out
the entire HTML form for you live. I
think that'd be excruciating to have you
guys sit through. First thing we want to
is talk about the form tag itself and
that is up on line 24. So this is a
standard HTML form tag but you can see them
using a Thymeleaf tag there and I am
saying object is recipe. So I'm going to
pass in a recipe command object to the
property recipe and now that is going to
be used for the rest of
form and then the th action that tells
Thymeleaf that we're going to post to
recipe. So I'm not filming out the entire
URL there. So Thymeleaf is going to parse
it at runtime and build the URL for us.
Next thing on line 25. This is important. This form it's a generic form so we're
going to be using this form for both
creations and updates. So we're able to
reuse that and if we were doing an
update, we wanted to past along the ID
value so that we know what to do. Obviously an ID isn't something that we
want to expose to allow editable but we
do need to pass it in with the command
object. So we know which ID value we are
editing here. In the case that we're
looking at today in this video, the idea
is going to be blank since the recipe
has not been created and that's going to
get assigned by the database when we
persist it. Next thing I want to talk
about is on line 35. This is an example
of an input. So you can see that we have
the bootstrap styling there around the
input element but I'm also using a th
colon field and that star squiggly
braces description. That is a property
off of a recipe . So it's important to
remember that this is going to
effectively be read as recipe dot
description. So that's going to be used.
It's like a dot notation but
everything is implied within the
form that we are using the recipe object.
Now we do have some radio buttons here.
I'm not implementing those right now.
That's for the categories. I'm not going to
implement that right now as well as the
difficulty. We're going to do both of
those in upcoming videos to show you how
to work with those controls and get
those rendering. Right now we're
primarily looking at the different
fields. So you have prep time, cook time,
serving. So these are all text fields, all
string fields and then ingredients we're
going to handle that separately. We'll go
off to another screen allow them to edit
the different ingredients associated
with the recipe.
So we'll create a URL edit / recipe /id
/ ingredients and then we'll do a list
of ingredients there and we'll get to
that as well as in future use. So let's
take a quick look at this inside of
chrome and this is running from the
localhost. So this is what we look like. This is a natural templating
engine so we have all the basic
properties here. I'm not sure why I got that there.
Must be description and why are we doing
that. I'll take a quick look and we see in
recipe description for some reason, I
have a last password running on my
Chrome browser and thinks that it's a
password or login field which is odd but
otherwise that icon would be there. I just
want to point out that it's
being injected by a Chrome plugin. So
we're going to have our description test
field. We will come up with checkboxes for
the categories, we will implement that in
the future. We will be employing the
functionality day for prep time, cook
time and all the other text fields. This
is not going to be implemented at this
point so that difficulty is not going to
work. We'll do that in a future video
then we'll get directions and notes. So
the important thing now is we need to
jog over to the controller and implement
the controller methods. Alright the
first one that we want to do is
implement the method that will render
the view. And this is going to
take in the model and what we want to do
is map it to recipe /new. This is going to
be a pretty simple one to implement. I'm
going to add an attribute. I'm going to
add in a new RecipeCommand so that that
becomes pretty simple and then for
what we want to return, it's a simple
String of the view name. So you can see
there in line 34, we're returning recipe
forms or recipes slash recipeform which
is going to match in our templates
recipe slash recipeform at last the html. So that is going to give us the view
capability. Now that's going to
handle it when we go to recipe new and
display our new form but we got to
handle the posts back. I'm going to call
it saveOrUpdate since it's going to work
for both. Now this is where we're using
the ModelAttribute. That's an annotation
to tell Spring to bind the form post
parameters to the RecipeCommand object. So that's going to happen for us
automatically by the naming convention
of the properties that we did in the
form. Now remember our service returns
back a new implementation of the command.
So we're going to return back that and
what we want to do here, we're going to
use a redirect and this is a command
that tells Spring MVC to redirect to a
specific URL. We're going to append that
with the ID of the saved object. So the
functionality is we'll see the
form, it'll come up we'll enter in all
the properties that we want and then
when we post it with the save, they'll go
into this. It will save to the database
and then come back and we will redirect
to the recipe show and show the
saved recipe. Now we also need to map
this.
So this here's the older way. So the
RequestMapping annotation has several
options that we can pass to a name and
method RequestMethod post and this is a
actually a tried-and-true way of doing
exactly as really as far as requesting
or specifying the HTTP method that is
going to be used as far as the verb
that's happening. And there's actually a
newer way to do it. This actually came
along in Spring 4.3 if I remember
correctly. So let's get rid of that and
we can actually use the Post annotation.
So what this is telling Spring to do is
when we get a post to the recipe URL or
the recipe path to invoke this
specific method here. Alright and I did
find a little bug inside of Spring. If you
use it with the name property here it
does not pick up correctly. So I'm going
to get rid of that. So now we just has a
RequestMapping of recipe without the
name attribute and PostMapping together
and it will work and actually there's
something I'm probably going to file a
bug report with the Spring team on. So
just a FYI in case you encounter it. So
now I am going to go ahead and run
Spring Boot. So Spring Boot is up and
running. Let's toggle it on over and this
here's the bug that we saw before, so I'm
going to refresh this. Kind of a really strange
behavior that was happening. So now we
have our two recipes that are being loaded by
the bootstrap. We come up here, new slash
new. My mistake. Do recipe new
and that will get to our form and on
these properties, we do need to be using
proper numbers because we don't have any
validation yet that's also coming up.
Just add in some texts for the
description, do the same for notes. Now we
can go ahead and submit it and we can
see that it did redirect to the show
property and our properties were
persisted. Obviously no categories, no
difficulty or ingredients but everything
else did persist properly to the
database.